Deploying Kafka with Let's Encrypt certificates (#235)
strimzi/strimzi.github.io: _posts/2021-05-03-deploying-kafka-with-lets-encrypt-certificates.md

---
layout: post
title:  "Deploying Kafka with Let's Encrypt certificates"
date: 2021-05-03
author: jakub_scholz
---

When deploying Apache Kafka on Kubernetes, Strimzi makes it easy to configure Kafka listeners with TLS encryption.

> But out of the box, these listeners will use only certificates signed by the internal self-signed certification authority generated by Strimzi.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But, with default settings, these listeners will only use certificates signed by the internal self-signed certification authority generated by Strimzi.
```

When clients try to connect to a listener secured with such a certificate, they will not trust it by default.

> You will need to get the public key of the certification authority which signed the server certificates and configure the client to trust it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to get the public key of the certification authority (CA) that signed the server certificates and configure the client to trust it.
```

> This brings a lot of complications, since you need to get the public key, distribute it to all the clients, and configure them to use it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This adds complexity, since you need to distribute the public key to all clients and configure them to use it.
```

> And you will need to update the public key when it changes, for example, because the old one expired.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And you will need to update the public key when it changes, such as when the current one expires.
```

> This would be much easier if the listeners can use TLS certificates signed by a certification authority which the clients trust out of the box.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This would be much easier if the listeners can use TLS certificates signed by a certification authority which the clients already trust.
```

You would not need to distribute any certificates, you just tell the client to use TLS.
And in this blog post I will show you how to do it with the help of [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/), [cert-manager](https://cert-manager.io/), and [ExternalDNS](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/external-dns).

<!--more-->

## Let's Encrypt

> [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/) is a non-profit certification authority which provides an automated way of issuing signed certificates which are trusted by most operating systems and software platforms. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/) is a non-profit certification authority which provides an automated way of issuing signed certificates that are trusted by most operating systems and software platforms. 
```

> It is currently providing more than 200 million certificates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's Encrypt currently provides more than 200 million certificates.
```

All you need to be able to get a signed certificate from Let's Encrypt is to own a domain and be able to prove its ownership.

> Let's Encrypt is using [Automatic Certificate Management Environment (ACME) protocol](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8555) to verify the domain ownership and request / issue the signed certificates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's Encrypt uses the [Automatic Certificate Management Environment (ACME) protocol](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8555) to verify domain ownership and request or issue signed certificates.
```

## Using the ACME protocol

> Don't get scared by the IETF specification of the ACME protocol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Don't be scared by the IETF specification of the ACME protocol.
```

We will use a tool called [cert-manager](https://cert-manager.io/) to communicate with Let's Encrypt.
All we will need to do is to configure the cert-manager and request certificates by creating custom resources in our Kubernetes cluster.

> When proving domain ownership, the ACME protocol supports two different mechanisms.
> One is _HTTP Challenge_ and the second is _DNS Challenge_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When proving domain ownership, the ACME protocol supports two different mechanisms:
- _HTTP Challenge_ 
- _DNS Challenge_
```

> The [HTTP Challenge](https://letsencrypt.org/docs/challenge-types/#http-01-challenge) uses HTTP to verify that you own the domain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[HTTP Challenge](https://letsencrypt.org/docs/challenge-types/#http-01-challenge) uses HTTP to verify that you own the domain.
```

> It requires you to put on some path on that domain some specific string which it will try to access using HTTP protocol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You supply an address that it tries to access using the HTTP protocol.
```

For example, when requesting a certificate for domain _example.com_ it will ask you to place a file with some specific information on the HTTP address `https://example.com/.well-known/acme-challenge/...`.
If you are able to do it, you have proven that you control the domain.

> This works well for web applications which use HTTP, but it doesn't work so well for applications using TCP such as Apache Kafka.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This works well for web applications which use HTTP, but it doesn't work so well for applications like Apache Kafka that use TCP.
```

Apache Kafka does not use HTTP so it cannot easily provide information on a given HTTP URL.
That is why with Apache Kafka, we will need to use the DNS Challenge.
The [DNS Challenge](https://letsencrypt.org/docs/challenge-types/#dns-01-challenge) works similarly, but uses the DNS protocol instead of HTTP.
It will ask us to create a DNS record with some specific information to prove our domain ownership.

> Using the DNS challenge makes it a bit more complicated, because we will need to give cert-manager access to the DNS management of our domain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the DNS Challenge makes it a bit more complicated, because we will need to give cert-manager access to the DNS management of our domain.
```

But once we configure it, it works well.

## Assigning DNS names to Kafka brokers

The certificates issued by Let's Encrypt are always bound to one or more domain names.
So to make the certificates work, we need to make sure that the clients connecting to the Kafka cluster are able to use the same domain names that will be in the certificates.

> [ExternalDNS](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/external-dns) is a project which allows you to use annotations to assign DNS names to Kubernetes resources such as services, ingresses or nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[ExternalDNS](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/external-dns) is a project that allows you to use annotations to assign DNS names to Kubernetes resources, such as services, ingresses, or nodes.
```

> In the examples in this blog post we will access Kafka using [Kubernetes NGINX Ingress Controller](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/), and we will use ExternalDNS to assign DNS names to the `Ingress` resources created by Strimzi and Kubernetes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the examples in this post, we access Kafka using [Kubernetes NGINX Ingress Controller](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/), and we use ExternalDNS to assign DNS names to the `Ingress` resources created by Strimzi and Kubernetes.
```

## DNS management

Both cert-manager and ExternalDNS can work with many different DNS providers.

> I personally use [Amazon AWS Route53](https://aws.amazon.com/route53/) for most of my domains and therefore it will be used throughout this blog post.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I personally use [Amazon AWS Route53](https://aws.amazon.com/route53/) for most of my domains and use it in this example too.
```

> If you use some another provider, you will need to configure the cert-manager and ExternalDNS tools a bit differently.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use another provider, you will need to configure the cert-manager and ExternalDNS tools a bit differently.
```

> Full list of DNS providers supported by cert-manager can be found in its [documentation](https://cert-manager.io/docs/configuration/acme/dns01/#supported-dns01-providers).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A full list of DNS providers supported by cert-manager is provided in its [documentation](https://cert-manager.io/docs/configuration/acme/dns01/#supported-dns01-providers).
```

> For ExternalDNS, the list of supported providers can be found on its [GitHub page](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/external-dns#status-of-providers).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For ExternalDNS, you can find the list of supported providers on its [GitHub page](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/external-dns#status-of-providers).
```

              "Action": [
                  "route53:ChangeResourceRecordSets",
                  "route53:ListResourceRecordSets"
              ],
              "Resource": "arn:aws:route53:::hostedzone/ZXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX"
          }
      ]
  }
  ```
* And one for ExternalDNS
  ```json
  {
      "Version": "2012-10-17",
      "Statement": [
          {
              "Effect": "Allow",
              "Action": [
                  "route53:ChangeResourceRecordSets"
              ],
              "Resource": [
                  "arn:aws:route53:::hostedzone/ZXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX"
              ]
          },
          {
              "Effect": "Allow",
              "Action": [
                  "route53:ListHostedZones",
                  "route53:ListResourceRecordSets"
              ],
              "Resource": [
                  "*"
              ]
          }
      ]
  }
  ```

You will need to replace the hosted zone id `ZXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX` with the actual ID of the hosted zone of your domain.
It can be found in the Route 53 console.
Once you have the policies created, you will need to assign them to the cert-manager and ExternalDNS deployments.

> In my case, I simply created two new AWS users, attached the policies to them and stored the access key IDs and secret access keys in Kubernetes Secrets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In my case, I simply created two new AWS users, attached the policies to them, and stored the access key IDs and secret access keys in Kubernetes Secrets.
```

        name: route53-credentials
        key: access-key
  - name: AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
    valueFrom:
      secretKeyRef:
        name: route53-credentials
        key: secret-access-key
```

For cert-manager, we will use the credentials later when creating the certificate.
So we just follow the cert-manager [documentation](https://cert-manager.io/docs/installation/) and install it in our cluster.

You can use other methods to pass the AWS credentials to cert-manager and ExternalDNS.
For example,  using [kiam](https://github.com/uswitch/kiam) or [kube2iam](https://github.com/jtblin/kube2iam).
If you use Amazon EKS, you can also use the built-in support for [attaching roles to Kubernetes ServiceAccounts](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/iam-roles-for-service-accounts-technical-overview.html) as well.

The configuration procedure will be similar for other DNS providers as well.
Just follow the documentation provided by cert-manager, ExternalDNS and your DNS provider.

## Creating the signed certificate

With cert-manager and ExternalDNS installed, we can move to the next step.
We will connect cert-manager to Let's Encrypt and get a signed certificate.

> First, we will need to create either `ClusterIssuer` or `Issuer` resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, we need to create either `ClusterIssuer` or `Issuer` resources.
```

`ClusterIssuer` is cluster-scoped and it can be used from applications running in all namespaces in your cluster.
`Issuer` is namespace-scoped and can be used only from the namespace where you create it.

> In my case, I used `ClusterIssuer`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In my case, I use `ClusterIssuer`:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1
kind: ClusterIssuer
metadata:
  name: example-com-letsencrypt-prod
spec:
  acme:
    email: my-email@example.com
    preferredChain: ""
    server: https://acme-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory
    privateKeySecretRef:
      name: example-com-letsencrypt-prod-account-key
    solvers:
    - dns01:
        route53:
          accessKeyID: AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE
          hostedZoneID: ZXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
          region: us-east-1
          secretAccessKeySecretRef:
            key: secret-access-key
            name: example-com-route53-credentials
      selector:
        dnsZones:
        - example.com
```

> The `ClusterIssuer` resource specifies several different things:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `ClusterIssuer` resource specifies how to obtain our certificate from Let's Encrypt:
```

> * The `acme` sections tells cert-manager that we want to use the ACME protocol.
> * The `server` section specifies the address of the ACME server which will be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `acme` tells cert-manager that we want to use the ACME protocol.
* `server` specifies the address of the ACME server which will be used.
```

  In the example here, it uses the Let's Encrypt production server.

>   But you can of course also use staging for testing purposes by using the `https://acme-staging-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory` server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  But you can use the staging server `https://acme-staging-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory` for testing.
```

> * `privateKeySecretRef` specifies the Kubernetes Secret where the key for communication with Let's Encrypt will be stored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `privateKeySecretRef` specifies the Kubernetes Secret where the key for communication with Let's Encrypt is stored.
```

> * The `solvers` section specifies how the ACME protocol challenges should be solved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `solvers` specifies how the ACME protocol challenges are solved.
```

>   As explained earlier, we have to use the DNS challenge type for Apache Kafka.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  As explained earlier, we have to use the DNS Challenge type for Apache Kafka.
```

>   So we need to specify the AWS credentials, the hosted zone ID and the domain for which this `ClusterIssuer` will be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  So we need to specify the AWS credentials, the hosted zone ID, and the domain for which this `ClusterIssuer` will be used.
```

  In my case, the domain is `example.com`.

The `Issuer` resource would be the same, just with a different `kind`.

After you create the `ClusterIssuer`, cert-manager will register with the Let's Encrypt ACME server.
When you query the `ClusterIssuers`, you should see that it is `Ready`:

```
$ kubectl get clusterissuers -o wide
NAME                              READY   STATUS                                                 AGE
example-com-letsencrypt-prod      True    The ACME account was registered with the ACME server   9d
```

> With the `ClusterIssuer` ready, we can also proceed to the next step and have the certificate issued.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the `ClusterIssuer` ready, we can issue the certificate.
```

For that, we will need to create a `Certificate` resource.

> The `Certificate` resource should be created in the same namespace where we will create the Kafka cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create the `Certificate` resource in the same namespace as the Kafka cluster.
```

> The resource should look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The resource looks like this:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1
kind: Certificate
metadata:
  name: my-cluster-lets-encrypt
spec:
  secretName: my-cluster-lets-encrypt
  issuerRef:
    name: example-com-letsencrypt-prod
    kind: ClusterIssuer
    group: cert-manager.io
  subject:
    organizations:
      - my-org
  dnsNames:
    - bootstrap.example.com
    - broker-0.example.com
    - broker-1.example.com
    - broker-2.example.com
```

> The resource contains several different sections:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The resource provides configuration for the certificate:
```

> * `secretName` specifies the Kubernetes Secret which will be created by cert-manager and which will contain the signed certificate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `secretName` specifies the Kubernetes Secret created by cert-manager that contains the signed certificate.
```

> * `issuerRef` defines which issuer should be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `issuerRef` defines the issuer to use.
```

  It links it to the `ClusterIssuer` we just created.
  In case you decided to use `Issuer` instead of `ClusterIssuer`, you can just change the `kind`.

> * `subject` configures the fields of the X509 subject which will be used
> * `dnsNames` configures the Subject Alternative Names which will be used in the certificate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `subject` configures the fields of the X509 subject.
* `dnsNames` configures the Subject Alternative Names used in the certificate.
```

>   This is important, because it should contain all the DNS names used by the Kafka cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This is important, because it must contain all the DNS names used by the Kafka cluster.
```

>   Alternatively, you can also use wildcard certificate:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Alternatively, you can also use a wildcard certificate:
```

    ```yaml
    dnsNames:
      - "*.example.com"
    ```

> Once you create the `Certificate` resource, cert-manager will generate the private key and have it signed by Let's Encrypt.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you have created the `Certificate` resource, cert-manager generates the private key and has it signed by Let's Encrypt.
```

my-cluster-lets-encrypt   True    my-cluster-lets-encrypt   example-com-letsencrypt-prod   Certificate is up to date and has not expired   3h18m
```

You should also have the secret with the public and private keys:

```
$ kubectl get secret my-cluster-lets-encrypt -o yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  annotations:
    cert-manager.io/alt-names: bootstrap.example.com,broker-0.example.com,broker-1.example.com,broker-2.example.com
    cert-manager.io/certificate-name: my-cluster-lets-encrypt
    cert-manager.io/common-name: bootstrap.example.com
    cert-manager.io/ip-sans: ""
    cert-manager.io/issuer-group: cert-manager.io
    cert-manager.io/issuer-kind: ClusterIssuer
    cert-manager.io/issuer-name: example-com-letsencrypt-prod
    cert-manager.io/uri-sans: ""
  name: my-cluster-lets-encrypt
  namespace: myproject
type: kubernetes.io/tls
data:
  tls.crt: ...
  tls.key: ...
```

## Deploying the Apache Kafka cluster

With the certificate signed, we just need to deploy our Apache Kafka cluster and configure it to use our public and private keys.

> First, you will of course need to install Strimzi.
> And then, you can create the `Kafka` custom resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, you need an installation of Strimzi.
And then you create the `Kafka` custom resource.
```

In my case, I used the signed certificate for an `ingress` type listener.

> But it would work similarly with other external listeners as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But it would work similarly with other types of external listeners.
```

> The bootstrap address will use the address `bootstrap.example.com`.
> And the brokers will use addresses `broker-X.example.com` where `X` is the ID of the broker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The bootstrap address uses the address `bootstrap.example.com`.
And the brokers use addresses `broker-X.example.com`, where `X` is the ID of the broker.
```

              host: broker-1.example.com
            - broker: 2
              annotations:
                external-dns.alpha.kubernetes.io/hostname: broker-0.example.com.
                external-dns.alpha.kubernetes.io/ttl: "60"
              host: broker-2.example.com
          brokerCertChainAndKey:
            secretName: my-cluster-lets-encrypt
            certificate: tls.crt
            key: tls.key
    config:
      auto.create.topics.enable: "false"
      offsets.topic.replication.factor: 3
      transaction.state.log.replication.factor: 3
      transaction.state.log.min.isr: 2
    storage:
      type: jbod
      volumes:
        - id: 0
          type: persistent-claim
          size: 100Gi
          deleteClaim: true
  zookeeper:
    replicas: 3
    storage:
      type: persistent-claim
      size: 100Gi
      deleteClaim: true
  entityOperator:
    topicOperator: {}
    userOperator: {}
```

The addresses are specified in two places:
* In the `annotations` section, I use the `external-dns.alpha.kubernetes.io/hostname` annotation to tell ExternalDNS that this `Ingress` resource should be assigned the given DNS name.

>   And ExternalDNS will automatically set-up the Route 53 DNS records.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ExternalDNS sets up the Route 53 DNS records automatically.
```

>   You of course do not have to use only `Ingress` - it can be used the same way for load balancers or node ports.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  You don't have to use `Ingress`. You can use `loadbalancer` or `nodeport` instead.
```

* The `host` field configures the `Ingress` resource to expect the connection to use this hostname when connecting to the broker.

> In addition to that, the `brokerCertChainAndKey` section specifies the listener certificate which should be used for this listener.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to that, the `brokerCertChainAndKey` section specifies the listener certificate used for this listener.
```

> We just point it to the Kubernetes Secret created by cert-manager which contains our signed certificate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We just point it to the Kubernetes Secret created by cert-manager that contains our signed certificate.
```

> The resource above is just an example which doesn't contain things such as authentication, metrics etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Kafka` custom resource I've shown above is just an example. It doesn't specify authentication, metrics, and other configuration.
```

-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
...
-----END CERTIFICATE-----
subject=/CN=bootstrap.example.com
issuer=/C=US/O=Let's Encrypt/CN=R3
---
No client certificate CA names sent
Server Temp Key: ECDH, X25519, 253 bits
---
SSL handshake has read 2970 bytes and written 317 bytes
---
New, TLSv1/SSLv3, Cipher is ECDHE-RSA-AES256-GCM-SHA384
Server public key is 2048 bit
Secure Renegotiation IS supported
Compression: NONE
Expansion: NONE
No ALPN negotiated
SSL-Session:
    Protocol  : TLSv1.2
    Cipher    : ECDHE-RSA-AES256-GCM-SHA384
    Session-ID: F2CE7100EF5F4E077C69EA3CAE6307F6F90848933FAAEF2F34F1F79C6A35590A
    Session-ID-ctx:
    Master-Key: 46A6C5A04A034E9350D73AC037E52D4CACD49CF6F33103B929372CB7F44816939A5473C9E67DD6AFE03D221ADA6412BB
    Start Time: 1619999991
    Timeout   : 7200 (sec)
    Verify return code: 0 (ok)
---
...
```

As you can see from the following part of the output:

```
Certificate chain
 0 s:/CN=bootstrap.example.com
   i:/C=US/O=Let's Encrypt/CN=R3
 1 s:/C=US/O=Let's Encrypt/CN=R3
   i:/O=Digital Signature Trust Co./CN=DST Root CA X3
```

the server certificate used by `bootstrap.example.com` is signed by Let's Encrypt.

## Sending or receiving messages

> We can now also test that we can produce and consume messages from the Kafka cluster without configuring any certificate in our clients.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can now also test that we can produce and consume messages from the Kafka cluster without configuring a certificate in our clients.
```

When using the console consumer or producer from Kafka, we need to specify the `--bootstrap-server` option and the `--topic` option.
And in addition to that we will also enable TLS encryption with `--consumer-property security.protocol=SSL`.
We do not need to specify any truststore.
We will use the default CA certificates bundled with Java.

```
$ bin/kafka-console-consumer.sh --bootstrap-server bootstrap.example.com:443 --topic my-topic --consumer-property security.protocol=SSL
{ "Hello World": "2021/05/03 00:08:44" }
{ "Hello World": "2021/05/03 00:08:45" }
{ "Hello World": "2021/05/03 00:08:46" }
...
```

> We can also do the same for example with [kafkacat](https://github.com/edenhill/kafkacat).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can also do the same, for example, with [kafkacat](https://github.com/edenhill/kafkacat).
```

We configure the bootstrap server as `bootstrap.example.com:443`.
And we enable the TLS encryption with `-X security.protocol=ssl`.

> But we do not specify any certificate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But we do not specify a certificate.
```

We let it use the CA certificates bundled with the operating system.

```
kafkacat -C -b bootstrap.example.com:443 -X security.protocol=ssl -o end -t my-topic
{ "Hello World": "2021/05/03 00:02:29" }
{ "Hello World": "2021/05/03 00:02:30" }
{ "Hello World": "2021/05/03 00:02:31" }
...
```

## Certificate changes or renewals

> If you need to change the signed certificate - for example to add more DNS names or change some other settings, you do not need to worry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to change the signed certificate — for example to add more DNS names or change some other settings —  don't worry.
```

In my case, I simply created two new users, attached the policies to them and stored the access key ID and secret access keys in Kubernetes Secrets.

### Installing cert-manager and ExternalDNS

To install ExternalDNS, you can just follow the installation process from its documentation.
But in addition to it, I configured the AWS credentials to be passed from the Secret as environment variables into the ExternalDNS deployment:

```yaml
env:
  - name: AWS_REGION
    value: us-east-1
  - name: AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID
    valueFrom:
      secretKeyRef:
        name: route53-credentials
        key: access-key
  - name: AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
    valueFrom:
      secretKeyRef:
        name: route53-credentials
        key: secret-access-key
```

For cert-manager, we will use the credentials later when creating the certificate.
So you just follow the cert-manager documentation and install it in our cluster.

You should be also able to use different ways to pass the AWS credentials to cert-manager and ExternalDNS.
For example using [kiam](https://github.com/uswitch/kiam) or [kube2iam](https://github.com/jtblin/kube2iam).

> If you use Amazon EKS, you can also use the built-in support for [attaching roles to Kubernetes ServiceAccounts](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/iam-roles-for-service-accounts-technical-overview.html) as well.

Author: No, I would leave it. The whole paragraph is basically only about AWS.

---
No client certificate CA names sent
Server Temp Key: ECDH, X25519, 253 bits
---
SSL handshake has read 2970 bytes and written 317 bytes
---
New, TLSv1/SSLv3, Cipher is ECDHE-RSA-AES256-GCM-SHA384
Server public key is 2048 bit
Secure Renegotiation IS supported
Compression: NONE
Expansion: NONE
No ALPN negotiated
SSL-Session:
    Protocol  : TLSv1.2
    Cipher    : ECDHE-RSA-AES256-GCM-SHA384
    Session-ID: F2CE7100EF5F4E077C69EA3CAE6307F6F90848933FAAEF2F34F1F79C6A35590A
    Session-ID-ctx:
    Master-Key: 46A6C5A04A034E9350D73AC037E52D4CACD49CF6F33103B929372CB7F44816939A5473C9E67DD6AFE03D221ADA6412BB
    Start Time: 1619999991
    Timeout   : 7200 (sec)
    Verify return code: 0 (ok)
---
...
```

As you can see from the following part of the output:

```
Certificate chain
 0 s:/CN=bootstrap.example.com
   i:/C=US/O=Let's Encrypt/CN=R3
 1 s:/C=US/O=Let's Encrypt/CN=R3
   i:/O=Digital Signature Trust Co./CN=DST Root CA X3
```

the server certificate used by `bootstrap.example.com` is signed by Let's Encrypt.

## Sending or receiving messages

We can now also test that we can produce and consumer messages from the Kafka cluster without configuring any certificate in our clients.

> When using the consoler consumer or producer from Kafka, we need to specify the `--bootstrap-server` option and the `--topic` option.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When using the console consumer or producer from Kafka, we need to specify the `--bootstrap-server` option and the `--topic` option.
```

We configure the bootstrap server as `bootstrap.example.com:443`.
And we enable the TLS encryption with `-X security.protocol=ssl`.
But we do not specify any certificate.
We let it use the CA certificates bundled with the operating system.

```
kafkacat -C -b bootstrap.example.com:443 -X security.protocol=ssl -o end -t my-topic
{ "Hello World": "2021/05/03 00:02:29" }
{ "Hello World": "2021/05/03 00:02:30" }
{ "Hello World": "2021/05/03 00:02:31" }
...
```

## Certificate changes or renewals

If you need to change the signed certificate - for example to add more DNS names or change some other settings, you do not need to worry.
You can just update the `Certificate` resource and cert-manager will get a new updated certificate for you.
Strimzi will automatically detect it and do a rolling update of the Kafka brokers to load the new certificate.
Also certificate renewals will be done automatically by cert-manager and Strimzi.

## Conclusion

This blog post shows that using signed certificates with Strimzi and Apache Kafka is really easy.
The most difficult part is configuring cert-manager and ExternalDNS to work with your DNS provider.
But trust me, it is worth the effort.

> You will not need to worry about anymore copying the self-signed certificates to your applications.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You will not need to worry anymore about copying the self-signed certificates to your applications.
```

> And in many cases, cert-manager and ExternalDNS will come handy also for other applications, not just for Apache Kafka.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
And in many cases, cert-manager and ExternalDNS will come in handy also for other applications, not just for Apache Kafka.
```

Expansion: NONE
No ALPN negotiated
SSL-Session:
    Protocol  : TLSv1.2
    Cipher    : ECDHE-RSA-AES256-GCM-SHA384
    Session-ID: F2CE7100EF5F4E077C69EA3CAE6307F6F90848933FAAEF2F34F1F79C6A35590A
    Session-ID-ctx:
    Master-Key: 46A6C5A04A034E9350D73AC037E52D4CACD49CF6F33103B929372CB7F44816939A5473C9E67DD6AFE03D221ADA6412BB
    Start Time: 1619999991
    Timeout   : 7200 (sec)
    Verify return code: 0 (ok)
---
...
```

As you can see from the following part of the output:

```
Certificate chain
 0 s:/CN=bootstrap.example.com
   i:/C=US/O=Let's Encrypt/CN=R3
 1 s:/C=US/O=Let's Encrypt/CN=R3
   i:/O=Digital Signature Trust Co./CN=DST Root CA X3
```

the server certificate used by `bootstrap.example.com` is signed by Let's Encrypt.

## Sending or receiving messages

We can now also test that we can produce and consume messages from the Kafka cluster without configuring a certificate in our clients.
When using the console consumer or producer from Kafka, we need to specify the `--bootstrap-server` option and the `--topic` option.
And in addition to that we will also enable TLS encryption with `--consumer-property security.protocol=SSL`.
We do not need to specify any truststore.

> We will use the default CA certificates bundled with Java.

Reviewer 3: I would highlight that that CA certificates default truststore with Java contains the Let's Encrypt CA certificate and for this reason it works oob.

Author: I'm not sure I want to get into this level of details ... does it really trust Let's Encrypt (ISRG Root X1)? Or does it trust IdenTrust DST Root CA X3? It will probably depend on version of Java etc.

Author: The OpenSSL command example in the blog post for example shows that up-to-date MacOS trusts it through IdenTrust ... so I would simply avoid going into more details because it is more complicated.
